# Thesis Template for Software Technology at Utrecht University

This repo contains a class file (`tex/latex/uustthesis.cls`) 
together with a example build set-up for writing larger
LaTeX documents. 

If you are just looking for the class file and needs no help
in setting it up, just take `tex/latex/uustthesis.cls`.

If you want the whole package, the best option is to fork
or clone this repo and use it for your thesis. 

# Structure of the Repo

  - User created files go under `src/`
  - Everything that is generated by tools goes into `dist/`
    and is ignored by git.
  - Packages that you might want to include manually go into
    `tex/latex/`
  - Documentation on how to write and/or customize class files
    can be found under `doc/`. If you are writing a MSc thesis,
    please, stick to minimal customization.
  
## Configuring the Makefile

  We use GNU `make` to build our pdf. The makefile provided here
requires minimal configuration to build a pdf. Make sure that
the following variables are correctly set:

  1. `TGT` is the name of the target *without* extensions.
  2. `TGT_FULL` is the name of the target *with* extneions.
  3. `BUILD_DEPENDS_LHS` is the list of files that should be
      processed by `lhs2TeX`. In most cases, this will be just
      the topmost file. This list contains filenames relative
      to `src/`
  4. `BUILD_DEPENDS_TEX` is the list of LaTeX files that are
     required to build the pdf. This list contains filenames
     relative to `src/`
  5. `MAIN_FILE` should be either `dist/$(TGT).tex` or
     `src/$(TGT).tex`. This depends on whether or not the main
     LaTeX file was generated by `lhs2TeX` or not.


## Using Nix to get the right fonts and LaTeX installation

The repository provides a `default.nix` file, that describes all the
dependencies of this project. This file can be used in conjuction with the Nix
package manager to handle all the dependencies of this thesis.  It will
automatically install the correct fonts, latex packages, and the correct
version of lhs2tex.

To install Nix, visit  https://nixos.org/nix/

To do incremental development, you can type `$ nix-shell`. This will drop you
into a `bash` shell with all the fonts and build tools in scope.  You can now
simply type `make` to build the thesis.


You can also type `nix-build`. This is basically a combination of `nix-shell && make`,
and will build the thesis as a nix package, and will put the result in the `result` folder

